docs/codrone-edu/python/03-Flight-Commands-Movement/30-send_absolute_position.md, before:

---
custom_edit_url: null
id: 30-send_absolute_position
title: send_absolute_position()
---

##### Description

Sends a movement command to the drone based on its absolute position from its takeoff location. Note: A sleep command for the length of the movement may be needed after using this movement command. <br />
The 'x' position of the drone is forwards and reverse. <br />
The 'y' position of the drone is left and right. <br />
The 'z' position of the drone is up and down. <br />
![xy position image](topdown_xy.png) <br />
![xyz position image](xyz.jpg)

##### Syntax
```send_absolute_position(positionX, positionY, positionZ, velocity, heading, rotationalVelocity)```

##### Parameters

**positionX**: Float value from -10 ~ 10 meters. The X position of the drone. Forward is positive. Backwards is negative.<br /> 
**positionY**: Float value from -10 ~ 10 meters. The Y position of the drone. Left is positive. Right is negative.<br /> 
**positionZ**: Float value from -10 ~ 10 meters. The Z position of the drone. Up is positive. Down is negative.<br /> 
**velocity**: Float value from 0.5 ~ 10 meters per second. The movement speed of the drone. <br /> 
**heading**:  Integer value from -360 - 360 degrees. Positive turns the drone left. Negative turns the drone right. <br /> 
**rotationalVelocity**: Integer value from 0 - 360 degrees per second. Left and right rotation speed of the drone.

##### Returns

None

##### Example Code
###### Python
```python
#Python code
from codrone_edu.drone import *

drone = Drone()
drone.pair()

drone.takeoff()

# Sending the drone forward from its takeoff location 0.5 meters moving at 0.5 m/s
drone.send_absolute_position(0.5, 0, 1, 0.5, 0, 0)
time.sleep(1) # Sleep command needed in order for this movement to execute.

# Sending the same command will cause the drone to hover around 
# the same area since this command uses absolute positioning from the takeoff location
drone.send_absolute_position(0.5, 0, 1, 0.5, 0, 0)
time.sleep(1)


drone.land()
```

Commit message:

added .py files to CDE examples added try finally statements to code concerning the movement of the CDE

docs/codrone-edu/python/03-Flight-Commands-Movement/30-send_absolute_position.md, after:

---
custom_edit_url: null
id: 30-send_absolute_position
title: send_absolute_position()
---

##### Description

Sends a movement command to the drone based on its absolute position from its takeoff location. Note: A sleep command for the length of the movement may be needed after using this movement command. <br />
The 'x' position of the drone is forwards and reverse. <br />
The 'y' position of the drone is left and right. <br />
The 'z' position of the drone is up and down. <br />
![xy position image](topdown_xy.png) <br />
![xyz position image](xyz.jpg)

##### Syntax
```send_absolute_position(positionX, positionY, positionZ, velocity, heading, rotationalVelocity)```

##### Parameters

**positionX**: Float value from -10 ~ 10 meters. The X position of the drone. Forward is positive. Backwards is negative.<br /> 
**positionY**: Float value from -10 ~ 10 meters. The Y position of the drone. Left is positive. Right is negative.<br /> 
**positionZ**: Float value from -10 ~ 10 meters. The Z position of the drone. Up is positive. Down is negative.<br /> 
**velocity**: Float value from 0.5 ~ 10 meters per second. The movement speed of the drone. <br /> 
**heading**:  Integer value from -360 - 360 degrees. Positive turns the drone left. Negative turns the drone right. <br /> 
**rotationalVelocity**: Integer value from 0 - 360 degrees per second. Left and right rotation speed of the drone.

##### Returns

None

##### Example Code
###### Python
```python
#Python code
from codrone_edu.drone import *

drone = Drone()
drone.pair()
try:
    drone.takeoff()

    # Sending the drone forward from its takeoff location 0.5 meters moving at 0.5 m/s
    drone.send_absolute_position(0.5, 0, 1, 0.5, 0, 0)
    time.sleep(4) # Sleep command needed in order for this movement to execute.

    # Sending the same command will cause the drone to hover around
    # the same area since this command uses absolute positioning from the takeoff location
    drone.send_absolute_position(0.5, 0, 1, 0.5, 0, 0)
    time.sleep(4)
finally:
    drone.land()
    drone.emergency_stop()
    drone.close()
```
